[Music]
welcome back to cs50 beyond hope you all
enjoyed lunch feel free to help yourself
to pizza now still if you'd like as we
go through this afternoon a bit of a
change of pace this afternoon so we
spent the morning talking about HTML and
CSS which you would see in cs50 but we
went a little bit beyond that looking at
other features of HTML and CSS in more
modern versions of both right we're
gonna do this afternoon in this take a
look at git and so just for show of
hands if you've actually just do the
faces if you've used git before and you
feel comfortable with a green smiley
face if you've never used it before red
frowny face if you're somewhere in
between yellow ok so sort of all over
the place a bunch of people have used it
before a bunch of people have never used
it before so if you've never used it
before this will be a good introduction
even if you have used it before
hopefully you'll get a bit more of an
understanding of it here
git is what we call a piece of version
control software it's software designed
to help us manage and track different
versions of our code and it is
incredibly helpful if you ever go on to
take future computer science classes or
you go and work in for a computer
science internship or working computer
science and industry you will almost
definitely be using it as your means of
keeping track of different versions of
your projects and so it's good to have
an understanding of it and how it works
so today is going to be a bit of an
introduction to that give you an
opportunity to see the various features
of it get an opportunity to practice
with it hands-on later on this afternoon
and then in the latter part of the
afternoon we'll also take a look at SAS
which is a way to generate CSS code
which we'll take a look at in a moment
as well but questions before we begin
on anything about anything from this
morning anything about the structure of
the class or logistics of what's gonna
happen this afternoon alright let's go
ahead and get started then so we're
talking about git today and git is a
piece of version control software as I
mentioned and it's good for a number of
different things so the first thing that
get is particularly good for is for
keeping track of changes you make to
your code I remember when I first took
cs50 I would be working on like a
problem in the problem set and I would
work and get like part of it working but
not quite and I would be afraid that if
I added more I would like break the
stuff I'd already done so I was like
save a duplicate copy of the code
somewhere make changes another copy and
pretty soon you have like four or five
different copies of the same program
that are all slightly different and they
just become a little bit tough to keep
track of maybe some of you have had
similar experiences definitely
that happened to me this is before I
learned how to use get which is
primarily designed for trying to deal
with problems like this keeping track of
changes you make to your code such that
you have a full revision history so to
speak of all the changes you make so you
might have initially created a file made
some changes to the file added a line to
the file remove the line from the file
and get is going to help keep track of
all of those different changes we make
to the code so that we have a record of
all the changes we've made
another thing that get is particularly
good for is for synchronizing code
between different people so you might
imagine that you have some file that you
and a collaborator a partner are working
together on maybe it's a partner you're
working on in a problem set in a class
together or a bunch of people that
you're working with on the same software
project if you're working for the same
company for instance and you're sharing
some file that you're working on
together and what get makes it easy to
do is to give both you and your partner
the same version of that file such that
you can both independently be making
modifications to that file change
different parts of that file and then
eventually synchronize them back up
together in some sort of central server
such that you can both then get that
updated version of the file right where
the idea is you can both be
independently making changes to the code
synchronize them somewhere so that you
both have access to the latest version
no more emailing like this is the latest
version use that one and then their
conflicting versions being emailed
around and that starts to become messy
yet helps to just simplify that process
keep track of everything much more
cleanly
another thing that get is good for is
it's good at testing changes to your
code without losing the original copy of
the code so you might have something
that's working and you might want to add
a new feature to your website for
instance so you might want to tackle the
next part of the problem set but doing
so might involve breaking the stuff
you've already made and you want to save
that
so what get makes it very easy to do is
say branch off the term that we'll
explore more in just a moment but say
try something else for a little bit
while keeping the original and only when
we've tried it and it works and we're
feeling comfortable with it can we then
merge it back in with the original code
such that we now have the original
version of whatever it is that we were
working with and finally get is very
good at reverting back to old versions
of code right you've made some changes
and you decide the feature you have is
not a feature that you want or you
decide that what you've done has a
mistake in and a bug you want to go back
to a previous version it's very easy to
just say you know what go back in the
revision history go back to
a previous version of that file so
questions about the goals here the
problems that we're trying to solve and
then we'll introduce git and see how it
actually goes about solving this
problems all right a website you may or
not may not be familiar with it's called
github you should all have github
accounts that you made when you took
cs50 or in some other time and what
github is going to do is it's going to
be a website that's going to host what
we called it repositories and the word
repository you can think of as just
meaning a folder where we're going to
contain the code files that we're going
to track the code that we want to keep
track of different versions of and
synchronize between different people
it's just a folder where you're going to
snort code and so github is an online
place to store those repositories such
that you can put code there and then
different people can access that same
shared repository so I'll show you an
example of that now I'll go ahead and go
to github calm you'll be brought to an
interface that looks something like this
and in the upper right you'll see a
little plus button if I click on that
there's a button there that says new
repository so you click on that new
repository you're going to give that
repository a name I'll just call it
beyond for now you can give a
description if you want you can make it
public meaning anyone can access it
anyone can see it you can also make it
private github recently allowed any user
even for free to create private
repositories so if you don't want other
people to be able to see it you can make
it private as well I'll make this one
public and you go ahead and create the
repository and what this is going to do
is just create an empty folder an empty
repository on github servers where an
eye can begin to store code eventually
so that's all I've done created a new
repository on github website so now what
are the commands that I can run on the
command line to interact with this get
repository well the first thing I need
to do is this repository is located on
github servers I want it on my computer
so that I can begin adding files to it
looking at the files that are in it
making modifications and such and so a
command that we're going to use is
called git clone and so would get clone
is going to do is if I have my computer
here and I have some server that's got
the code that I want to clone locally
onto my computer I run the command git
clone followed by the URL of the
repository and what that's going to do
is because it's gonna make a copy it's
gonna take the repository located up
somewhere on github servers and it's
going to copy it and
down onto my own computer so that I have
a copy of that repository on my local
machine what questions do you have so
far okay I'll actually do this you can
see what it looks like what I have here
is a URL and they're gonna be two
different URLs in HTTP URL and an SSH
URL if you set up SSH with github there
are instructions for how to do that on
the github website you can use that URL
that involves something called public
key cryptography - cryptography which
we'll talk about later in the week but
if you haven't set that up you're
probably safest using the HTTPS URL for
now I'm gonna use the SSH URL but either
will work and you'll go into your
terminal I'll go to my desktop and I'm
just going to type git clone followed by
that URL and what that's going to do is
it's going to clone that repository and
it says warning you appear to have
cloned a temp your repository but that's
fine I know that the repository is empty
but if I look at the folders that are
inside of my desktop right now recall
that LS is a terminal command that
stands for a list list all the files and
folders in this directory what I'll see
is I have a directory now called beyond
the same name as the repository that I
had just a moment ago if I move into the
beyond directory by typing CD CD for
change directory or move into a folder
CD Beyond and now inside the Beyond
directory and if i type LS nothing
happens there's nothing inside of this
folder but I have now cloned this folder
so that I have a copy of the repository
on my computer so that's good clone
questions yeah yep so the question was
where did I get the URL when you create
a new blank repository you should get a
URL that shows up here if you have files
in the repository this interface looks
slightly different but there'll be a
drop-down where you can clone it and
there should be a link there as well so
what I'd like to do now is add some
files to this repository right maybe I
want to put my website that I was
creating this morning inside of a git
repository which would allow anyone to
see it anyone to propose modifications
to it allow multiple people to
collaborate on it for instance and so to
add something to a git repository the
command we run is just called git add
and so quite simply what happens is that
if I have a file
and I make some changes to it and I want
to add these changes to the next time
that I save a version of the repository
and instead of save a version of the
repository the terminology we're gonna
start using is the word commit whenever
I say commit just think of it as this is
a version of the repository that I'm
saving and will save the entire history
of commits so that anytime I make a
commit it's going to save that as a
version I have access to and so if I
want to say this is a file I want to
include the next time I make a commit
I'm gonna run a command called git add
followed by the name of the file food
pie or whatever the file happens to be
and that's basically telling it that
food a pie this is a file I want to
include in my next commit and so I'll
actually get better try and when you do
that get will give you a message letting
you know that this is now a change that
you can commit and so let me go ahead
and create a new file inside of this
folder I'll call it hello dot HTML touch
as a command that you can use just to
create a file an empty file if you want
to call it hello dot HTML I'll go ahead
and edit that file and we will put it
very simple very simple hello dot HTML
file that I've now put inside of the
Beyond directory if I type ls' I see
that hello dot HTML is there and now if
I type something like get add hello dot
HTML nothing seems to have happened but
I have now added hello dot HTML as a
file that I want to include in my next
commit I've told gate that this is a
file that should be in the repository
the next step is to actually make this
change to actually commit this change
and so how might you do that the command
is just get commit and so what does that
look like a you type git commit - mm for
message and then in quotation marks
you're going to include what's called a
commit message which is just an English
phrase or sentence describing what it is
that you changed in this commit and that
could be anything you want but the
rationale for this is that when you're
going back and looking at your history
it becomes very clear what changes you
made when and when other people are
looking at repository it becomes easier
for the
to understand what changes you're making
and this is especially useful people are
collaborating you can see what other
people have been up to not by trying to
read every single line of code that
they've written but in particular by
looking at their commit messages to see
a description in English of what it is
that they've changed so git commits em
followed by the message and you say okay
this is what I did i just added a line
to the file some message to describe
what you did and that's going to take
your code and just save a new version of
that code with all of those changes in
it so that's good commit will go ahead
and give that a try I'll type git commit
dash M and I'll just say add a holo file
right this is what I did in this
particular commit a press return your
name and email address for configured
automatically yeah that's fine
I haven't yet set up my name and email
address on this particular computer and
that's something that you'll probably
need to do the first time that you start
working with git so okay questions so
far
about what we've done yeah
oh good question so what do I actually
so the question is like are there now
two versions of this file if I just look
inside of the Beyond directory right now
I only have one copy of hello dot HTML
and if I show what it's inside of it by
saying cat hello dot HTML it's got the
contents the most recent contents and so
if I were to just look at the files
themselves and they'll look like right
now at least whatever my most recent
version of the file is but separately
get is storing all of those previous
versions I just can't see them right now
but yeah good question all right so
maybe now I want to get a better
understanding of what's happening inside
my git repository I'm a command I can
use very frequently as git status that
basically just tells you what's
currently happening in my get repository
what's going on and it lets me then
figure out what to do next
so if I type inside my repository get
status what I'll see is that I'm on
branch master and we'll see in a moment
what the branch means and it says but
the upstream is gone okay
I haven't quite configured everything
just yet but I just did get status to
check what was going on and then the
command that I just typed was git push
and so get I type git push and you saw a
whole bunch of things happen so what
exactly is get push and what does it do
well when I added the hello HTML file it
wasn't yet on github servers just yet
right it was only on my own computer
locally and so what get push does is it
says when I type git push it says take
whatever changes that I've made and go
ahead and push them up to the server
right I want to take those changes and
push them up to github so that anyone
who goes online onto github and looks at
my repository can actually see the
changes that I've made can see those
commits that I've made and in fact now
if I go to my github repository that
right now is just empty and i refresh
this page what I'll see now is as a file
here right there is hello dot HTML and
if I click on hello dot HTML
I'll see ok here is the file that I've
created
it's the same as the one that was
locally on my computer but I added it to
my git repository and then I pushed it
up to github so that it now has the
latest versions and anytime I make a
change I can do something like this
so for instance I can go back here and
maybe instead of just hello world I want
to put hello world inside of an h1 tag
to make it big and bold so hello world
get rid of that question yeah oh good
question so what's the difference
between get push and get push origin
master get pushed normally we'll just
default to doing what get push origin
master is it has to do with pushing to
different branches and we'll talk about
branches in a moment all right so I took
hello world and I put it inside of the
h1 tag and now this is some change that
I would like to commit I'd like to save
this as a new version of the repository
and so I can say all right get add hello
dot HTML this is the file I want to
include in my next commit I get commit -
M and I'll say ok put text in an h1 tag
and ok and it's telling me that I need
to add my I'll just go ahead and do my
name and email address that it stops
telling me to do that ok sorry about
that ok so I committed those changes and
let me fix the identity the commit and
now if I type git status it says that
I'm on branch master and it says my
branch is ahead of origin master by one
commit ok it's a little bit confusing
but what does that mean it means that my
branch of the repository the version
that I have on my computer is ahead of
the origin version the origin one is the
one that's up on github servers by one
commit meaning I have made one change
that my server on github doesn't yet
know about and so if I want to publish
those commits push them up to github I
can type git push before I do that
notice that hello dot HTML it just has
hello not in an h1 tag but as soon as I
type git push to say take my changes
push them up to github so the get up has
the
version of my code I push that refresh
the page and okay now hello world is
inside those h1 tax this is the latest
version of the repository but what
you'll see on github is if I go to the
github repository page I can see that
I've made two commits and if I click on
ok two commits that I've made here I can
actually see ok here was the original a
dejalo file and I can see ok here is the
original file that I created the one
without the h1 tag and then I can say ok
when I put text inside the h1 tag let's
look at that commit and ok here was the
change that I made I took the hello
world line and I added the h1 tags
around it so github and get more
generally is tracking all of these
changes that I make it knows when I make
the changes whenever I make a new commit
and it's saving all of those different
commits in the commit history of this
particular repository questions yeah
good question so the question is what is
get actually storing simply put get is
storing a different version of the file
for each type of time you create a new
version of that file although there are
ways to compress that and it does some
compression behind the scenes to try and
save space but it you can generally
think of it as storing a separate
version of the file every time you make
a change yeah yes if you make two
commits and then you type git push that
will push both of those commits up to
github other things other questions
ok so let's explore a little more and
actually before we go ahead can we die
just get a little bit of feedback with
the smiley faces about how much are we
following this how much does it make
sense are we feeling about it ok so mix
of mostly green some yellow take some
questions yeah
the default will be the most recent on
github yes yeah why would you commit
something and not push it good question
pushing it is only relevant if you care
about other people online being able to
access that same version and so there
are many times when I'm working on a
project independently for instance and I
might care about committing things for
myself but I don't really care about
other people on the internet being able
to access the repository and so then you
might commit but not really care about
pushing because you don't care about
other people on the internet being able
to access the repository yeah so git add
is that so the question is why did I add
before I committed it's sort of a
two-step process that get uses first you
add files and put them in what's called
the staging area which is to say you
tell git that this is a file you want to
include in your next commit and then you
actually do the commit the reasoning
here might be maybe you've made
modifications to a bunch of different
files but you don't want to commit all
of them at the same time maybe you were
only done with like two or three of them
and are ready to commit but the others
you're not ready yet so you can only add
the files you actually want to commit
and then you say okay commit to say
commit all of these files so there's
always this additional add step now
there are short short hand workarounds
to this if you type instead of git
commit dash M you do get commit - am the
a for add that will automatically add
all of the changed files and commit at
the same time it's you can combine the
adding commit steps together but there
is still that add step that needs to
happen yeah good question so the quotes
the idea here is even if of added it and
it's in the repository if I make changes
to the file I need to tell git that
those changes to the file are ones that
I want to include in the next commit so
I still need to add it again yeah great
question we'll get to that in a moment
yes
do you have to download get yes you'll
need in order to so the question is how
do you actually use get you'll need to
install get most likely first if you go
to either get or did hubs website there
will be instructions for how to install
it but it varies a little bit depending
on which platform you're using but
you'll likely need to install it first
for Macs it comes with the Xcode
developer tools which it may ask you to
download but there are other ways to get
access to it as well other things okay
the opposite of git push as you might
imagine is get pull so the idea here is
that before we talked about situations
where what's on my computer is more
recent than whatever is up on the server
sometimes it's going to be the other way
around
whatever is up on the server is going to
be more recent than whatever I have on
my computer and I want to take the
changes from up in the server and
download them down to my computer so
that I can then use them and have access
to them to do that I just run the
command git pull that takes the changes
from up on the server downloads them
onto my computer such that I now have
access to them and so I'll show you an
example of that as well
github is user interface actually lets
me make modifications to the code so I
can go into hello dot HTML then actually
edit it so we'll go to hello it at HTML
I'll edit it and I will say let me go
ahead and add a comma between hello and
world right just a simple change and I'm
gonna say okay add a comma
that's my commit message and I'm gonna
commit those changes so I've committed
those changes just by a github web user
interface which you can do just edit a
file and make a commit online okay so
that's what I've done now but on my
version of the repository here if I look
at hello dot HTML right it's still hello
world no comma right because the version
on github is more recent than the
version on my computer and I would like
to pull down those changes so that my
version on my computer is up-to-date so
to do that I just type git PO press
return and here's what it says alright
it's updated my repository in and it
says one file changed one insertion one
Alysha yet is not quite smart enough to
know that I've taken one line and edited
it so if I take one line and edit it it
sees that as removing the line and
adding in the new line so that's what
one insertion one deletion means and now
if I check the file you'll notice that
there's actually a comma between hello
one world right I've pulled down the
latest version of the file and now the
file and my computer has updated in
order to reflect those changes questions
about that okay so we can get push to
push our changes from our computer up to
the server we can get pull to take
changes from the server and pull them
down onto our local computer what can go
wrong here what are some problems you
imagine might start to come up yeah
people trying to push different versions
up to get up alright great and so what
might go wrong if multiple people are
trying to make changes to the same
repository what can happen yeah yeah so
imagine the situation where multiple
people are making changes to the same
line and now git is not going to be able
to resolve for itself
how to deal with that like which version
should it actually be if person a has
made this change a person B as made that
change it is normally pretty smart about
things if I'm adding something to the
beginning of a file and someone else is
adding something to the end of the file
yet is usually pretty smart about just
being able to merge those changes
together but it sometimes you'll run
into situations when people are working
on the same file where we can't quite
resolve it and this brings up what we
call merge conflicts when we try to
merge two people's changes and we can't
resolve those differences and that
generates what we call a merge conflict
and so that might happen if I like git
pull some changes I pull some changes
down from github but the changes I'm
pulling conflict with whatever I have on
my repository there's some conflicts
there and so rather than being able to
actually merge it's going to say
conflict there was some merge conflict
in some file the automatic merge failed
I need to fix the conflicts and then
commit the results all right there's
some problem we need to fix them you
open up the file and you'll see
something really cryptic that looks
something like this
this can be strange and confusing at
first they'll try and help you decipher
what it is that this actually means well
you'll see is between the left-arrow
symbols and the equal signs these are
your changes the changes that you've
made on your repository and the changes
between the equal signs and the greater
than signs these are the remote changes
the changes that you're trying to merge
in to whatever it is that you have and
this long sequence of numbers and
letters this is what we call a commit
hash every time you make a commit
it gives it a commit hash which is just
a long sequence of numbers and letters
uniquely identify that commit this is
just telling you which commit is
actually the one that's creating the
conflict and so what do you do when you
see something like this the first thing
you can do is remove those marker
symbols and then you need to decide what
it is that the file should look like
maybe remove any of the excess
whitespace and when the file looks the
way you want it to look you commit the
results basically you need to manually
go in and tell git how it is do you want
to resolve these different conflicts
some modern text editors come built in
with some automated ways of trying to
help you do that but in short you have
to do something like this every time so
let's give that a try I am gonna go to
hello world and maybe add some
exclamation points we'll add two
exclamation points and I'll do git
commit - am to combine the add in the
merge step and say add to exclamation
points all right
figure automatically okay and then up on
this github repository I'm going to edit
it and let's I don't know add five
exclamation points
so I've made a change on my local
computer I've made a change on github
and importantly these changes conflict
their changes to the same line of code
and git is not gonna know when it tries
to take these two changes and merge them
together like which one should it listen
to so I go back here and now if I try to
get PO I'm gonna get okay
trying to auto merge hello dot html'
conflict merge conflict in HTML and
automatic merge failed fix the conflicts
and then commit the results so let's
take a look at it here's hello dot HTML
& vs code is doing some fancy
highlighting to try and make it clear to
me what exactly is going on but
basically between the left arrow symbols
and the equal sign these are my this is
my version the one with just three
exclamation points here then beneath it
is the version that I'm trying to pull
in the one with even more exclamation
points here's the commit hash of the one
that's causing the conflict and I
basically need to manually resolve this
conflict in order to figure out what
should actually happen next and so in
order to do that well I can go ahead and
say and that vs code actually give me
some buttons like either accept my
current chain you accept the incoming or
like sort of compare them in order to
figure out how to resolve it I'm just
going to resolve it manually for now by
deleting this line deleting that line
deleting that line so here the two
versions and I sort of just need to
decide how am I going to resolve these
together and maybe I'll say you know
what I'll just use all of the
exclamation points just put them all
together and save that right this is the
version that I now want to keep I'll do
git commit a.m.
I'll say fix merge conflict and okay
great now if I type git push say okay
push those changes back up to github
those are changes that I want to save if
i refresh the page and all right now
I've been able to fix the merge conflict
and I have the long sequence of
exclamation points that I once I've been
able to resolve the changes that were
conflicting between the two doesn't
always come up when you're working with
git but comes up often enough that it's
good to know what a merge conflict is
and how you can actually deal with it
what questions you have about that merge
conflicts pushing pulling yeah
good question so the question is alright
we're working on the same piece of code
I make some changes to the top of the
code and that's fine my partner makes
some changes to the bottom of the code
but we're using the same variable maybe
we're using the same variable in
different ways and don't realize what
the other person is doing is get going
to catch that merge conflict it's not it
is not smart enough to know anything
about the logic of the program it's just
looking at lines of code and figuring
out how they work and so there's still
something you need to be careful about
you still need to be careful just
because you don't have a merge conflict
doesn't mean that things are going to go
together perfectly the way that you want
them to so something to be aware of good
point yeah okay um let's when we get to
project time come find one of the
Teaching Fellows and we can help you try
and solve that yeah good question
how do you delete a file from a
repository I'm I'm on your normal
command line RM is the command to delete
a file RM for remove so you do RM space
the name of the file if you do get RM
followed by the name of the file that's
going to remove the file from the next
time you make a commit so the next time
you make a commit you'll save that but
because git does store the history of
all the commits if you wanted to go back
and get that fire removed you still
could yeah so question is how do you
save changes to specific files rather
than all the files you've changed you do
that via the git add step so when you
type git add you specify which files you
want to save in your next commit and so
if you've medet 'add 10 files but only
half of them or once you want to commit
only add those half and then when you
commit you're only going to commit the
ones that you've added to the so called
staging area great questions other
things we'll get an opportunity to
practice too yeah
yeah they are yeah
so get Ad dot dot stands for current
directory that's basically a way of
saying add everything that may have
changed alright great questions a couple
other commands that we'll look at
briefly one is git log git log is a
command that basically just shows you a
history of the commits that you've made
it's a way of seeing all your commits on
the command line so I typed something
like git log and it basically just see
alright here is a commit that I made and
here's when I made it and what I changed
and here's another commitment what
happened and so if I type and git log I
see alright here's when I fix the merge
conflict at 1433 added five exclamation
points added two exclamation points
they're in reverse chronological order
but I can see this whole history of all
the commits that I've made and what
they're commit hashes were okay get
reset is one of the probably the last
command that we'll look at before we
talk about branching this is a way of
going back to a previous version of a
commit and so if you type git reset - -
hard so there's differences between soft
resets and hard reset so we won't quite
go into today up you can experiment with
followed by a commit hash that will
basically take you back to a previous
version of the file so git reset - -
hard followed by commit hash takes you
back to like this particular command
that will eliminate all those changes
and take you back and you can also go
back to a particular branch as well and
when we start to talk about branching
you'll see this a little more clearly -
so let's talk about making changes to a
repository and what exactly happens as
you go about the process of working on a
repository working on a larger project
and what making changes looks like right
so you make your first command and maybe
now you're adding features to it you're
making changes to it you're making some
more changes to it you start working on
our new feature and
what happens then you keep working on
that new feature what happens then if
you discover a bug in your program you
want to go and fix that bug but you want
to fix that bug but simultaneously
you're also working on this new feature
and that's not quite ideal when you want
to figure out some strategy for being
able to deal with this being able to
work on two different parts of a project
simultaneously and so that's what
branching is this idea you hear about a
lot when we start to talk about git and
something that's built into the core of
what get is it's designed to allow you
to branch very easily where the idea
here is you've made your first commit
you're making some changes to that
commit you make some more changes to
your project and now you want to start
working on a new feature but you've got
this what we might call the master
version of your repository some version
of your code that works and when you
start working on your new feature you
don't want it to be on the master branch
so to speak you want to work on it
separately such that when it's done you
can merge it back in with the rest of
the code so rather than start working on
a new feature and just keep it on the
same branch what you might do is you
might branch off start working on a new
feature on a different branch and keep
working on that new feature on a
different branch and now you might
imagine okay you discover that way back
in the original version of the code
there's some bug and so you can say
alright this was when I first branched
off to start working on the new feature
but the bug is in this version of the
code let me just go ahead and fix the
bug on this version of the code and now
what I've got going on in two different
branches I've got this master branch the
original version of the code and then I
have my feature branch which could be
called whatever you want just some name
to describe the feature that I'm
currently working on and I've got these
two independent versions of the code
that I can switch back and forth between
git has a term called the head of the
repository capital H EA D that just
represents where in the repository am I
now and by default head is going to be
whatever master is it's going to be
pointing to the master branch but I
could move my head I could move where I
am in the repository and say you know
what I actually want to work on the
feature branch instead for instance and
so we'll show you how you can check out
different branches so to speak in just a
moment so I'm keeping working on this
new feature I fix the bug and the
feature is now done I'm ready to bring
it back into the master branch the last
thing I can do is say all right I want
to take these two changes
I want to merge them back together so
that this new feature is
on the master branch but so is the bug
fix everything comes together in that
way yeah the question is what's the
significance of where the head is it
represents whatever are which files I am
currently working on and so if I try and
open up a file to edit it the version of
the file that I'm looking at is whatever
version the head is pointing to and so
we'll see that in just a moment two
other things okay
so let's actually give this a try the
commands we're gonna be using are a git
branch to go to a different branch get
checkout in order to check out some new
branch and get merged to say merging
some things together so let's go ahead
and go into my repository and let's say
get checkout get checkout as my way of
saying I want to go to some new branch
and I don't have any other branches
right now in fact if I type get branch
right now it'll show me the branches
that I currently have I just have the
master branch and the little star next
to master means this is the branch that
I'm currently on I'd like to branch off
go create a new branch and so I'm going
to say get checkout - be so git checkout
will normally just take you to a
different branch if I want to check out
a brand new branch I'll do get checkout
- be to create a new branch I'm gonna
call this branch what am I gonna do I'll
just call it feature I'm adding some new
feature to my web page and so okay
switch to a new branch feature great if
I type git branch right now I see that
now I have two branches I have a feature
branch and I'm a master branch the
feature one is the one with the star
that's the branch that I'm currently on
and the master branch is the other
branch that I have available to me and
all right here's how loaded HTML and I
want to add some sort of feature maybe
the feature that I'm going to add is
some styling to this web page so I'm
going to go up here add a style header
and say all right h1 is gonna have a
color and it's gonna be blue right
fairly straightforward I just added some
styling to it I can test it open up
header at HTML make sure it looks blue
great so I've added that now I'd like to
commit those changes so I'm gonna say
git commit - am
ad silent that's the change that I made
and I want to save those changes in this
repository so I'm on git branch on the
feature branch and I have this styling
that I'm coloring the h1 tag blue but
this is only a change that I've made to
the Future branch if I go ahead and type
git checkout master meaning switch
branches go to the master branch instead
press return
all right I've switched to branch master
and now if I look at the code no more
style code right the version I've
switched my head to be on the master
branch I'm now looking at the code on my
master branch and the master branch
doesn't have the styling yet only the
feature branch does if I say git
checkout feature switch back to the
feature branch now my code has the style
code there you switch back and forth
between branches you can get different
versions of the code I switched back to
master ik to check out master now no
more styling code so now what I'd like
to do is say okay I'm happy with the
feature it works I've opened up the page
it looks blue I've tested this feature
thoroughly
I'd like to merge it in I'd like to
merge it into the master branch so that
my master branch has the latest version
of this code how do I do that well what
I can do is I can just say git merge and
then the branch that I want to merge in
so I want to merge in the feature branch
into this current branch my master
branch so I say git merge feature and it
says one file changed five insertions
which sounds about right for the style
tag plus the style code and now I'm
looking at my master branch and the
style code is now there so the story of
what we did there is we created a brand
new branch the feature branch added some
code there made a commit then went back
to the master branch and merged that
commit into the master branch and this
is a way of version control of being
able to work on something without
messing up the original until you're
satisfied with the original at which
point you can merge in those changes
yeah you can can you still get conflicts
absolutely if I and my feature branch
made some changes and I and my master
branch made other changes to the same
places and tried to merge them in you
can definitely get conflicts there as
well but you resolve those the same way
yeah
good question does the feature branch
still exist yeah it does I tagged it
branch the feature branch is still there
I can switch to it if I don't want it
anymore I can delete it I think it's a
git branch - capital D for delete
followed by feature and that just hard
deletes the branch so now if I type git
branch just back to only the master
branch other questions about anything so
far okay one last thing I'll show you is
the idea of a pull request which is a
github based feature for when you're
trying to merge in changes this is
especially useful if you're
collaborating with each other multiple
people making changes and you want to
make sure that whatever is being merged
in has been reviewed that you have an
opportunity to look at it and approve it
before it actually gets merged into the
master branch so I'm gonna go ahead and
push these changes push them up to
github and what I'm also going to do is
let's say alright here's the master
branch here's hello to the HTML it's
blue right now let's say I want to make
a change and the change I would like to
make is I'd like to make the heading red
instead of blue so to do that I could
just make the change in commit it but to
show you branching I'll actually create
a branch first so get checkout - be
create a new branch I'll call the branch
red let's say because I want to change
it to red some on a new branch called
red I'm gonna go to this hosta the style
heading change the color from blue to
red git commit - am save all these
changes add all the new files that I've
changed change color to red that's my
commit message press return
alright I've made that change now if I
type git push you'll see that I don't
quite get this to work it says the
current branch red has no upstream
branch what does that mean well it means
that I'm trying to push the red branch
but on github github doesn't know that
there's a red branch get-up only knows
that there's a master branch so what I
need to do is tell github the origin
github is my origin repository to push
my red branch up to a new branch called
red on the origin and so to do that
you'll just run this command git push
set upstream origin
ready to mean push upstream to the to
github push to a new branch called red
so I went in ahead and did that push to
that new branch and so now if I check
github refresh this page it's still blue
and that's because I'm on the master
branch right now see on the left side I
see here I have branch master but if I
click on branch master I'll see a list
of all of my branches and here I have
master and I have red if I switch to the
red branch now I'll see okay here's the
fact that I have color red so I've got
both of these branches that are
coexisting on github simultaneously and
what I'd like to do is I'd like to use
github interface to say I would like to
propose this as a change to make to the
master branch and so this is what a pull
request
is it's a request to pull in some code
from a different branch and so I'll go
to pull request and it's actually
suggesting now that I actually make a
new pull request from the red branch and
notice that I've just pushed this branch
so I'll go ahead and compare and pull
request it's gonna ask me to title my
pull request proposed the name of the
changes that I'm making and leave a
comment so I thought the red looked
better whatever you want to say you can
create the pull request and okay now
anyone who has access to this repository
can see this pull request you can go
online and see it now if you want to you
can see the comment about the proposed
change if I go to the files changed you
can see here's the change that I'm
proposing to make I'm proposing to
change the color from blue to red and
you can see that what I want to do is I
want to merge one commit into master
from red that's what my pull request is
doing I'm trying to take one commit
that's on the red branch and merge it
into the master branch and so this is
something you commonly see in industry
where they don't just let anyone just
make it change automatically to the code
base where they'll want you to make
changes on a different branch and then
submit a pull request like propose these
changes so that someone else can code
review it leave comments and feedback on
the changes that you've made and then
only when everyone feels confident and
comfortable with the changes that you've
made did they go down here and click
this green merge pull request button
that says all right I'm happy with these
changes let's take the changes from the
red brand
bring them into the master branch and
when I click confirm merge now on the
master branch it's going to be updated
with that new red styling it's now
giving me the option to delete the red
branch which I can do now because I no
longer need the red branch but that's
the idea of a pull request questions
about all of that I know that's a lot
yeah so the question is I changed the
color to red but before I'm able to
merge it in someone's added new features
to the master branch what happens when I
merge red in it's going to keep all
those same features so everything just
gets merged together the only trouble
comes if when someone was adding new
features they also decided to change the
color to green and now they conflict and
then you have to deal with that merge
conflict but other than that everything
is preserved yeah good question is there
a way and github to like have some
approval mechanisms so that only certain
people can approve pull requests
absolutely in the settings you can go to
collaborators and you can add
configuration there for security to make
sure you can even add certain branch
protections to make sure that nobody can
push to mascar without going through a
pull request first even if they can push
to other branches there are a lot of
features there as well yeah yeah you
think of it as that it's called a pull
request insofar as you're trying to
request to have some code pulled into a
particular branch but depending on how
you think of it however make some best
sense to you but you're trying to merge
code together one branch into another
generally all right you'll have an
opportunity to play around with pull
requests and get and github a little
more in the afternoon project but just
wanted to introduce that to you as a
useful tool that you can use over the
course of this week in future classes
that you take in your own work in
industry someone and so forth other
questions about git before we turn to
one final topic for today
okay so last topic we're going to talk
about is SAS and so SAS is an extension
to CSS that is going to add some new
features to CSS so you might imagine
that CSS code can quickly start to get a
little bit repetitive where you might
imagine that if you've got a themed
website where your website follows a
standard color scheme for instance you
might have a particular color that
you're using again and again and again
throughout the entirety of your each of
your CSS page for instance whereby if
you later then wanted to go back and
change the color of the page you might
run into some issues whereby you'd have
to go back and change the color in every
single place where that color shows up
and that starts to get a little bit
annoying in code how do we solve this
problem if we've got some piece of code
that we're reusing a lot some value that
we're using a lot and we want to avoid
using it over and over and over how
would we solve this problem in a
language like C or Python define a
variable exactly we defined a variable
set the variable equal to the value and
then we can reuse that variable whenever
we want to represent that value CSS by
default doesn't give us that ability but
it is an ability that we get with
something called sass which we'll see in
just a moment among other features that
it adds on top of CSS and so let's take
a look at what that would actually look
like
so give an example here we'll go ahead
and go to the desktop and just create a
new file which I'm going to call
variables dot CSS and you might imagine
here that if I want to color unordered
lists and ordered lists the same way I
might say okay unordered lists I want to
have a color of red and a font size of
14 pixels and ordered lists I want to
have a color of red also and ordered
lists I want them to be bigger font size
18 pixels
let me now create a new file I'll call
it variables dot HTML doctype HTML i've
created a separate CSS file which we
haven't yet seen today but it works the
same as putting things in the style tag
the only change is cause my web page I'm
going to add in rather than putting a
style tag here I'm just gonna link the
CSS file I'm gonna say the relationship
of this file is a stylesheet and the
source for the file is that variables
dot CSS right so basically I'm saying
take the CSS code located in variables
dot CSS and include it as styling for
this particular HTML page this can be a
useful tool if you want to use the same
CSS file for multiple pages you don't
need to duplicate the CSS you just have
all the files reference the same CSS
file for instance and inside the body of
this page now I might have an unordered
list so ul I have a bunch of list items
so item 1 and item 2 and item 3 and
maybe in addition to that I also have an
ordered list in Oh L so I have a ul and
unordered list and an O L and ordered
lists it also has items in it and I have
them both or by now if I open up
variables dot HTML I see that I have a
small unordered list and a large ordered
this both of which are red and that's to
be expected because invariably stuff CSS
I said auto owner the unordered list
should be a size 14 point font color red
and ordered lists should be a size 18
point font and also colored red
but the duplication here is in the color
red right if I wanted to change the
color to blue or green or something else
I would have to actually go to both of
the places in the code and change both
of the occurrences of red to blue or
green or something else now might not
seem like a big deal for a simple
example but you imagine starting to work
on larger projects where things start to
get more complicated and this can start
to get messy or annoying to have to
replace all of these changes constantly
more room for error if you happen to
miss one and then things start to look a
little bit strange so how can we solve
this problem
that's what sass is designed to do so
I'm going to create a new file colored
variables s CSS is the file extension
for sass files and this is going to be
very similar to CSS but we're going to
extend it with the capability of
defining variables so I'm gonna define a
variable called dollar sign color and
dollar sign is just the way in sass that
you define a variable : red
could have been anything but the dollar
sign just says here's a new name for a
variable the variable is called color
and it's going to be set to red and now
I can say alright unordered lists I
should have a font size of 14-point but
the color rather than just saying red
here I'm instead going to say dollar
sign color alright that's the name of
the variable that I would like to use
right here
just plug in the value of that variable
here as well then I can also add an
ordered list and say alright the font
size for that should be 18 point font
and the color there is also just going
to be whatever the value of the color
variable is I'm using some variable
there putting it inside of my s CSS file
questions about what I'm doing so far or
why I'm doing okay so what we might like
to be able to do is go into our HTML
file and say all right instead of using
variables dot CSS let's use variables
dot s CSS and then go ahead and load
this page but when I do that I lost all
the styling sizes are the same
nothing is read why is that any guesses
I didn't link it but I did link it i
linked the scss file the problem here is
that web browsers don't natively
understand sass or s CSS files they only
understand CSS as a language and this
although it looks a lot like CSS is not
quite CSS it's using variables that CSS
doesn't support and so this is a bit of
a problem so what you need to do is
there's this extra step of converting
our s CSS file our sass file into a CSS
file and so that's the extra stuff that
you'll need to do you'll have to install
sass and there's instructions for how to
do this on the south's website but when
you do then you can say something like
alright sass variables des CSS and then
variables dot CSS what I'm saying here
is take variables s CSS and just convert
it into plain old CSS and generate a
file called variables dot CSS via the
sauce program so I press return nothing
seems to happen but if I look at
variables dot CSS now looks a little bit
different but the general thinking is
the same thing I've generated this CSS
file whereby it's plugged in the color
red into both unordered lists and
ordered lists and if I go into the a CSS
file now and change it go from red to
blue and then I rerun sass say recompile
the dot s CSS file into a dot CSS file
then when I go back to variables dot CSS
okay both colors are now blue it keeps
generating the new CSS file based on
whatever it is that I've included in the
sass file it's making that conversion
for me and then in variables dot HTML
rather than including the SSS file I'm
just going to include the CSS file the
translated version of that file such
that I can refresh it ok now everything
is blue now if I'm currently working on
development it's probably a little bit
annoying to have to constantly be every
time I make a change to the sass file
recompile it to the CSS file so sass has
some features to help with this I can
say sass - - watch to say keep watching
this file and anytime I make a change to
the file just automatically do the
conversion into the CSS file so I'll say
sass -
watch variables des CSS : variables that
CSS the colon separates original file
resulting file just the way the command
line program works I press return and
all right now it says SAS is watching
for changes now if I go to variables out
CSS and instead of blue say alright
let's make the color green save that and
go to variables CSS
alright the color is green it's
automatically updated to CSS files for
me based on whatever it is that I have
in the s CSS file questions about that
what I've done what the idea there was
okay so this adds some ability for you
in your own sass files to be a little
bit clever about CSS to be a little bit
better designed in the way that you
structure your style sheets and the way
do you go about thinking about what goes
where and how to think about avoiding
reusing the same thing multiple times to
make it easier to change things later on
down the line so now let's begin to look
at some of the other features that were
afforded in sass one of which is the
idea of nesting and so let me show you
an example I'll go to source are going
to nesting dot HTML so notice here I've
got an HTML page I have a div a big div
inside of which is a paragraph and
inside of the div is also an unordered
list a UL element then I have a
paragraph that's outside of the div and
I also have an unordered list that's
outside of the div so some hierarchical
structures here that are elements within
other elements but maybe I only want to
style like the paragraph in the list
that are inside of the div and so you
might end up with codes that look
something like this so the sauce
supports the idea of nesting CSS
selectors within each other where the
idea can be all right I'm gonna style
the div the div is going to have a font
size of 18 point font and then if inside
the div you have a paragraph a P tag
that can be colored blue and if inside
the div there's an unordered list that's
gonna have a color of green so you can
add the nesting of elements within
elements that can often be helpful if
you're thinking about larger more
complex CSS stylesheets and in fact
earlier this morning I was working with
some of you who are starting to come up
with things that were a little more
complicated you had a lot of things
nested within each other it's just a lot
simpler to think about when you can nest
CSS selectors within each other to say
only style paragraphs and unordered
lists that are inside of the div in
particular ways whereby if I open up
nesting that HTML SCD nesting HTML
oh I haven't okay I haven't compiled the
sass file and the CSS yet so sass
nesting dot s CSS nesting dot CSS and
all right great so now the list items
inside the div and the paragraph inside
the div those get styled but the
paragraph outside the day of in the list
outside that of those don't get styled
because I was able to generate from
nesting s CSS the nesting dot CSS file
which looks something a little like this
it's generating equivalent CSS code
that's taking advantage of the
descendant selector that we were talking
about earlier this morning questions
about that okay I'll show you one other
sass example just to give you a sense
for the type of thing that you can do
oftentimes you might have a whole bunch
of different things that are very
similarly styled except for a couple of
differences so an example of that might
be going to inheritance and open
inheritance of HTML right this is the
type of thing I want to create where I
have similar to like bootstrap alert
messages I have a success message a
warning message in an error message and
these are admittedly different right the
success message is Gris and the warning
is a yellow or orange and the error
message is red and there are all
different colors but there's also things
about them that are the same there are
similarly space they have a border
around the edge of them they're in a
similar font in the same font in fact so
everything about them is the same except
for the color and so I'd like some way
of
repeating myself when I'm writing this
code and so here's the code I might use
I'll use inheritance scss and what I
have up here is I'm defining the styling
for something called a message and a
message that I'm defining with this %
which is gonna allow me to extend it
later is gonna be sad serif it has a
particular font size it's going to be
bold it has a border and has certain
spacing 20 pixels around the edge of it
and 20 pixels inside of it and then
anything with a class of success I'm
gonna say is going to extend the message
it's going to inherit all of the CSS
properties that the original message had
so all of these CSS properties get used
inside of the success class the only
difference is that the background color
is green and likewise for my warning
message I'm also going to extend the
message that has all of these CSS
properties and values and I'm just gonna
say alright let's change the background
color to be orange and for the error
message I'm likewise just going to
extend that message and change the
background color to red when I generate
the resulting inheritance dot CSS file
it's going to look like this
it looks like all right let's give
success warning and error all of these
same properties in common and let's make
success have a background color of green
and warning of a background color of
orange an era of a background color of
red and certainly you can do this for
yourself but someone's gonna be easier
to reason about and easier to think
about by just giving it a name saying
these are all a message and success
extends that message and also has a
background color for instance to avoid
needing have success in too many places
to avoid having to repeat yourself too
many times and so yet another thing that
sauce can be useful for just in making
it easier to design your style sheets a
little more effectively yeah
good question so the question is about
like conflicting class names like what
if you have a class name declaration the
bootstrap has and you reuse that
declaration and sass this has actually
very little to do with sass itself
because sass is just generating CSS
files but it is an interesting question
of a bootstrap defines what class
success means maybe and my code also
defines what class success how class
success should be styled how should
those two things be resolved and the
answer is that if the selectors are
identical we talked a little bit earlier
about specificity the idea to like IDs
by more tightly than class names and so
if something has an ID that will take
precedence but if the selectors are the
same CSS tends to go with the last one
so whatever occurs last and so we can
demonstrate this very quickly if I open
up I'll just open up a copy variables
dead HTML and call it style dot HTML and
open up style dot HTML and I'm gonna
have a h1 and it says hello I can add
some style here whereby h1s are colored
red and H ones are colored blue these
are identical selectors so they should
bind equally tightly but when both are
in conflict the latter one is going to
take precedence it's gonna be blue
instead of red because the color blue
selector comes after the color red
selector now there are ways to override
this if you really want one of them to
take precedence even if it is earlier in
a file you can say color red exclamation
point important like this is an
important style you should use this one
and if you do that then hello is going
to show up as red but you should use
that sparingly usually there's almost
always a way to get by without needing
to use being important where you can
just add an ID or add some additional
layer of specificity such that you can
make sure it binds more tightly but good
question all right questions about sass
or what it can be used for or what the
idea of it is so we saw this idea of
variables of being able to in sass be
able to specify names a variable
that you can reuse later when you're
trying to use some common CSS property
value I talked about nesting things
inside of each other to avoid having
code that look something like this you
can have code that looks something a
little more like the right that's a
little bit easier to reason about
sometimes so this afternoon what I
thought we'd do is do a couple of things
I'll leave this up for a little bit so
you can take a look at it first thing to
do
install sass on your computer you're
probably also going to want to install
git if you haven't already and again the
TS can walk around and help you with
that and add some sass to your HTML page
add some variables add nesting if you'd
like to add some inheritance if you want
to as well
then go to github create a new
repository and take to the HTML page
you've been working on today and push it
up to get up push it up to the master
branch and just try and practice
committing changes and pushing them up
to github since that's probably new for
many of you and then here's an
opportunity to get to know each other
what we're gonna ask you to do is find a
partner someone to work with add each
other as collaborators to your github
repository so if you go to settings and
collaborators you can add the other
person's get up username as a
collaborator there and then what we'll
have you do is clone each other's
repositories but I didn't get clone
followed by the URL make some changes on
a new branch go to a new branch and
change the styling change the wording of
something for instance and push those
changes up to github on a new branch and
then practice making the pull request
make a pull request to the master branch
and have whoever owns the repository
look at those changes maybe comment on
them and then approve that pull request
that'll sort of simulate for Isis idea
of what very commonly happens in
practice and an industry all over this
idea of making chain is pushing them to
branches merging them together it'll be
good practice with HTML CSS and sass and
also good practice with git as well so
what I think we'll do is we'll I know
people are sitting in slightly different
places but we'll chain you up the
group's a little bit we'll have the
people sitting in the middle go to room
136 have the people sitting on this side
go to room 212 and actually we're going
to 12 last time this side go to 212 and
this side will stay here and we'll go
ahead and work on that just so everyone
knows we want all can reconvene here
we'll keep working until five o'clock or
so and then tomorrow we'll meet again
here at 10 a.m.